IMAT — Reading & Logical Reasoning (독해·논리) 기출 통합본
수록 연도: 2011–2025 (2023 제외) | 영역별 정렬
============================================================
총 230문제



[2011년 — 18문제]

Q3. Amnesty International (AI), a non-governmental organisation for the protection of human rights enshrined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, opposes the death penalty. Which one of the following reasons for opposing the death penalty is inconsistent with the principles of AI.

Q4. Three red balls, three yellow balls and one green ball are placed in a bag and the bag is shaken. I place my hand in the bag and pull out a red ball followed by a green ball.  I do not replace either ball.

Q5. My friend has three children, Alice, George and Hannah and I need to buy two presents for them to share. I want to buy two different toys and I want to make sure that Alice, George and Hannah will each like at least one of them. I don't want the toys to have small parts.

Q6. The number of visitors to the local swimming pool at different times on Wednesday last week is recorded in this table:

Q7. The polis is the most important institutional expression of the classical Greek way of life.  What type of state is it?

Q8. 17 A courier starts the day in London and makes two round trips to Prague in the day.  When she arrives at either airport, she takes the next available flight back.

Q9. 19 If the Carnival Committee does not follow the new European regulations then it may be impossible to guarantee safety. The probable consequence of this would be a heavy fine, which would severely reduce the carnival fund, and could be disastrous for the committee’s finances. Either the committee must meet the safety requirements or the future of the carnival may be under threat.

Q10. 21 In North America in the 1800s, arguments were often settled by gunfights, in which two people stood face to face a distance apart and tried to shoot one another. Recent experiments on human response times have shown that people act more quickly when responding to an action than when they are the first to move. This supports the view that our brain uses different routes in our nervous system to send messages for intentional and reactive movements.

Q13. 26 Migratory birds which are unable to fly long distances without resting have to use the shortest distance over water in their flights to and from Africa, and so they cross at the Straits of Gibraltar. It is essential for these birds, some of which are very rare, that the route remains open. For that reason, it is important that plans to build electricity-generating wind farms on the hills surrounding the Straits of Gibraltar do not go ahead.

Q14. 28 I have two cousins.  One was born the year before me, on June 3rd.  The other was born the year after me, on April 28th.

Q15. 30 Apples cost 30c each, bananas cost 40c each and oranges cost 50c each.  Daniel spends exactly €2 buying fruit.

Q16. 32 Recent research suggests that people are becoming less inclined to follow medical advice about how to prevent ill-health. They say that there is too much advice and it is often contradictory. However the general population is living longer and is healthier. This suggests that people are more aware of what is good for their own health and wellbeing than the medical profession is.

Q17. 34 In 2005, Peter's age was exactly four times that of his son, Quentin.  In 2021, Peter will be exactly twice Quentin's age.

Q18. 36 A fishing club wishes to send out a mailing to its 1000 members.  All members receive a magazine (100_g).  There are 50 committee members who receive minutes (50_g). A questionnaire (75_g) will be sent to 100 members. No committee members will be sent a questionnaire.  The envelope used for all mailings weighs 10_g.

Q19. 38 Many countries spent billions on vaccines in response to advice that a virus had the potential to kill millions. These countries are now trying to sell the stockpiles of vaccines which they do not
  A) need. There is concern that advice given by officials may have been influenced by
  B) pharmaceutical companies. Clearly, such companies would have an interest in making sure that
  C) governments spent large quantities of money on vaccines that they produced. It is essential that
  D) an investigation into this matter takes place as soon as possible so that those responsible can
  E) be held to account.

Q36. 25 If more workers worked for only four days each week there would be fewer commuters, and
  A) therefore less traffic congestion and less pollution. Also, fewer people would be unemployed
  B) because there would be more work to go around. There is evidence that part-time workers are
  C) absent from work less often than full-time workers, so a person working a four-day week would
  D) be more productive. Less work means less pressure, which means less stress and people
  E) would be happier.

Q39. 29 The table shows the number of people aged 20-35, 36-50 and 51-65 who participated in given sports at a leisure centre on a Sunday morning:

Q46. In which of the other sports was the proportion of participants in the three age ranges closest to that for swimming?

[2012년 — 33문제]

Q1. Road safety has improved greatly in recent years. B Drivers should be required to report all accidents that occur on the road. C Positive views about continually improving road safety may not be supported by what actually happens.
  A) D
  B) Government programmes have been unsuccessful in reducing the number of accidents.
  C) E
  D) Hospital admissions are a good way of measuring changes in the number of accidents on our
  E) roads.

Q2. It assumes that having smoke alarms will prevent fires. B It assumes that all deaths in fires are from arson attacks. C
  A) It overlooks the fact that smoke alarms may not work.
  B) D
  C) It assumes that people will be willing to install smoke alarms.
  D) E
  E) It assumes that all arson attacks are on people's homes.

Q3. Nicotine chewing gum should be banned as it is addictive. B Nicotine chewing gum is a relatively safe alternative to tobacco for those addicted to nicotine. C Tobacco smokers can get rid of their addiction by chewing nicotine gum. D
  A) Nicotine chewing gum will make nicotine addiction more common by removing some of its
  B) risks.
  C) E
  D) Tobacco companies should put money into the manufacture and marketing of nicotine chewing
  E) gum.

Q4. Young people may feel that their social life is dull compared with that shown in television programmes. B It is often impractical to use young people in television programmes given the restrictions on how many hours they can work. C
  A) It is important to represent school life accurately.
  B) D
  C) Television programmes about other areas such as the police are not accurate.
  D) E
  E) School work and academic success are important to all students.

Q5. 36.7 cm³ B 38.2 cm³ C
  A) 38.0 cm³
  B) D
  C) 40.0 cm³
  D) E
  E) 37.0 cm³

Q6. Some Dervies are both Bongles and Crannies. B Some Dervies are neither Bongles nor Crannies. C
  A) All Crannies are either Bongles or Dervies or both.
  B) D
  C) No Dervies are Bongles.
  D) E
  E) Some Bongles are Dervies.

Q7. Work 16:39 17:04 17:39 18:04 18:39 19:04
  A) 19:39
  B) Home
  C) 17:08
  D) 17:33
  E) 17:58

Q8. Modern technology simply takes from the environment and destroys its resources. B Fishing is now a serious threat to the world's environment and should cease. C
  A) Fish need to be carefully protected to prevent them from being destroyed.
  B) D
  C) Most people are unaware of the damaging effects of modern technology.
  D) E
  E) Humans must preserve renewable resources by learning how to use them carefully.

Q9. The increased popularity of shower gel is bad for the environment. B It is unfortunate that shower gel has become more popular than soap. C People should be made more aware of the environmental consequences of choosing shower
  A) gel.
  B) D
  C) The use of shower gel increases the problems of waste disposal.
  D) E
  E) The manufacture of shower gel is more wasteful of natural resources.

Q10. Using a bicycle is now the most popular way of travelling to work. B Travellers are now much more environmentally aware than they were 10 years ago. C
  A) People will not cycle to work unless employers provide more cycle spaces on site.
  B) D
  C) Travellers are now less happy to pay the costs of car use than they were ten years ago.
  D) E
  E) More people cycle to work now than 10 years ago.

Q12. 7% B 25% C
  A) 5%
  B) D
  C) 0.7%
  D) E
  E) 0.5%

Q13. It attacks the animal rights supporters rather than their argument. B It assumes that the animal rights supporters believe that animals that are living freely have a greater right to life than those that are being bred on farms. C It assumes that the animal rights supporters believe that badgers have a greater right to life than cows.
  A) D
  B) It assumes that the arguments from the animal rights supporters are about the number of
  C) deaths.
  D) E
  E) It assumes that animal rights supporters always disagree with the NFU.

Q14. Global warming is to blame for the reduction in coastal fog. B The levels of fog will continue to decline. C
  A) Other trees will not be able to thrive in these conditions.
  B) D
  C) Redwoods in other areas of the world are being similarly affected.
  D) E
  E) Rainfall has also reduced over the past 50 years.

Q15. Beauty spas which offer fish pedicures are not especially numerous at present. B It would be less harmful if people washed their feet before using the spa. C
  A) Fish in the wild are likely to die if their environment changes.
  B) D
  C) The death of the fish in the London spa may not be a typical occurrence.
  D) E
  E) The public does not immediately associate fish with the Animal Welfare Act.

Q16. 0.25 B 250.00 C
  A) 200.00
  B) D
  C) 160.00
  D) E
  E) 720.00

Q18. January February March April May €1= $2.74
  A) $2.79
  B) $2.76
  C) $2.83
  D) $2.81
  E) A

Q19. The calculation of ratings based on downloads and sales together is not difficult. B Sharing copies of purchased works with others is against the law. C
  A) Artists are not interested in the popularity of their work, just the sales figures.
  B) D
  C) The sharing of works with other fans is more widespread for certain types of music.
  D) E
  E) Official ratings have never reflected popularity very well.

Q20. Subjects which are of interest to individuals can also provide benefit to society. B The training of those people who will contribute most to society requires an increase in government funding in university education. C
  A) Medicine, Engineering and Computing are not very interesting subjects to study.
  B) D
  C) A wealthy society should not subsidise subjects which are of interest only to individuals.
  D) E
  E) The study at universities of Classics, Literature and Art provides little benefit to society.

Q21. English will one day be replaced as the main language of communication. B Speaking another language has always been an important practical consideration. C
  A) The majority of bilingual or multilingual people speak English.
  B) D
  C) The number of bilingual or multilingual people in the world will continue to grow.
  D) E
  E) English is the most common world language today because of the spread of the internet.

Q22. Child actors should have other interests that allow for other career opportunities. B Drug abuse is common in the entertainment industry. C
  A) Young actors who continue to work live happy, healthy lives.
  B) D
  C) Parents should not be allowed to manage the careers of their children.
  D) E
  E) There are fewer jobs available for adult actors.

Q23. People who are overweight are sometimes more concerned with their looks than the long term health risks. B A large box of salted popcorn contains as many calories as a three course meal. C Cinemas rely on sales of food and drink to boost their profits.
  A) D
  B) Trials show that consumers alter their eating habits when food is calorie­labelled.
  C) E
  D) Many people think that the food and drink consumed at the cinema is as important to the visit
  E) as the film.

Q24. €36 B €26 C
  A) €60
  B) D
  C) €20
  D) E
  E) €66

Q25. 1:R 2:Q 3:P B 1:Q 2:P 3:R C
  A) 1:Q 2:R 3:P
  B) D
  C) 1:P 2:Q 3:R
  D) E
  E) 1:R 2:P 3:Q

Q26. The 'cheap seats' policy is unlikely to attract a more diverse audience. B The intention of the 'cheap seats' policy is that it will attract a broader audience. C
  A) A considerable amount of money can be saved as a result of this offer.
  B) D
  C) Many young people do not like the idea of going to the opera.
  D) E
  E) Attracting a broader audience for opera is a problem of taste rather than expense.

Q27. 22.2% B 17.5% C
  A) 49.0%
  B) D
  C) 40.0%
  D) E
  E) 44.5%

Q30. 66.25% B 42.00% C
  A) 78.00%
  B) D
  C) 60.00%
  D) E
  E) 43.75%

Q31. The Bongo is longer than the Cubba. B The Esun is longer than the Dile. C
  A) The Dile is longer than the Esun.
  B) D
  C) The Cubba is longer than the Bongo.
  D) E
  E) The Dile is shorter than the Bongo.

Q32. Name Alison Harold Kevin Peter Rachel Votes
  A) 84
  B) 100
  C) 72
  D) 126
  E) 63

Q33. 4.5 km B 2.5 km C
  A) 1.5 km
  B) D
  C) 3.5 km
  D) E
  E) 0.5 km

Q34. Some of the people claiming that the theories of global warming are incorrect do not come from areas that had very cold weather last winter. B Although the weather was very cold last winter, the winter before was of average temperature. C Other regions of the Northern Hemisphere were hotter last winter than in previous years.
  A) D
  B) All the people claiming that theories of global warming are incorrect come from areas that had
  C) very cold weather last winter.
  D) E
  E) The claims that theories of global warming are incorrect are supported by further evidence.

Q36. There is evidence that there are fewer daytime accidents on those motorways without lighting. B Driving in well­lit areas at night can lead to a lack of concentration. C
  A) Research suggests that older drivers find driving without lighting more difficult.
  B) D
  C) Many drivers find driving on unlit roads difficult.
  D) E
  E) Street lighting costs less than other types of road maintenance.

Q38. It attacks the owner's motive rather than her reasons. B It assumes the disappearance of the red squirrel justifies eating the grey squirrel. C
  A) It attacks the whole notion of an ethical food.
  B) D
  C) It assumes that eating grey squirrels will protect the red squirrel.
  D) E
  E) It assumes that red squirrels don't need protecting.

Q39. Two thirds of patients said to have hypertension are being wrongly treated. B More effective ways of measuring blood pressure are needed. C
  A) Health services could save money currently spent on unnecessarily prescribed drugs.
  B) D
  C) Anxiety is the most common cause of high blood pressure.
  D) E
  E) 'White coat' hypertension has no medical significance.

[2013년 — 23문제]

Q1. The benefits of a mobile workforce have to be compared with the costs to elderly people and the economy. B Elderly people are expecting the state to provide care for them rather than relying on their children. C
  A) People should try to find education and work close to their place of birth.
  B) D
  C) The state should provide care for elderly people to make mobility of the workforce possible.
  D) E
  E) People should make caring for their elderly parents a priority over choice of work opportunities.

Q2. There are sufficient drugs already on the market and so there is no necessity to introduce new ones. B The drug industry is a very competitive business and secrecy is vital if companies are to survive. C
  A) People may be reluctant to use certain drugs when they have fuller information about them.
  B) D
  C) People are better informed about the side effects of drugs abroad than they are in this country.
  D) E
  E) Strong patent laws prevent companies from using the information to create rival drugs.

Q3. There is nothing wrong with changing the character of historic buildings. B 'At Risk' buildings need to be renovated according to strict rules. C A change in the law is needed if we hope to preserve more 'At Risk' buildings.
  A) D
  B) Existing laws make 'At Risk' buildings too expensive for most developers.
  C) E
  D) Historians can learn more from buildings which have not been modernised by modern
  E) developers.

Q4. Foreign gap year projects must have an element of community work for them to be worthwhile. B Foreign travel is not the only way to gain confidence and independence. C Projects within our own society can be as rewarding as foreign travel.
  A) D
  B) There is inherent benefit in spending some time abroad.
  C) E
  D) It is important that gap year students consider the impact of their travel on the communities
  E) they work in.

Q5. It assumes that those who felt they were successful actually were. B It assumes that those who felt they were motivated actually were. C
  A) The research does not establish that there are no successful learners who lacked motivation.
  B) D
  C) The research is only concerned with adult learners.
  D) E
  E) It assumes that in order to be motivated you have to have a special aptitude for learning.

Q6. Chile B Peru C
  A) Brazil
  B) D
  C) Ecuador
  D) E
  E) Bolivia

Q7. a type of pain killer. B a form of local anaesthetic. C
  A) a form of mild stimulant.
  B) D
  C) an inactive drug or treatment.
  D) E
  E) a sedative.

Q8. It fails to specify which types of public transport are to be improved. B The counter arguments are not explained in detail. C
  A) The statistic presented may not be representative of the whole population.
  B) D
  C) It does not consider the 24% who would not prefer to use public transport.
  D) E
  E) It fails to explain how the public transport system can be improved.

Q9. Octavius B Hannibal C
  A) Hamilcar
  B) D
  C) Augustus
  D) E
  E) Antony

Q10. Nairobi B Washington DC C
  A) Rome
  B) D
  C) London
  D) E
  E) Geneva

Q11. 644 B 500 C
  A) 696
  B) D
  C) 630
  D) E
  E) 626

Q12. €3.60 B €6.00 C
  A) €2.25
  B) D
  C) €3.15
  D) E
  E) €0.90

Q13. 5.51am B 5.51pm C
  A) 1.01am
  B) D
  C) 3.21pm
  D) E
  E) 3.51pm

Q14. The candidate won the election, came second, or came third. B The candidate either won the election or came second. C
  A) The candidate came second or third, but did not win.
  B) D
  C) The candidate came third.
  D) E
  E) The candidate definitely won the election.

Q15. year seconds year seconds 1900 22.2 1948
  A) 21.1
  B) 1904
  C) 21.6
  D) 1952
  E) 20.81

Q16. The use of old and inaccurate data indicates that Planet X cannot exist. B Astronomers are right to think that there must be an undiscovered planet. C
  A) The deviations in the orbits of Uranus and Neptune cannot tell us whether Planet X exists.
  B) D
  C) The calculations of the orbits of Uranus and Neptune are probably wrong.
  D) E
  E) Uranus and Neptune will deviate from the predicted orbits whether or not Planet X exists.

Q17. It draws a general conclusion from specific evidence. B It confuses a necessary condition with a sufficient one. C
  A) It jumps to a conclusion without any evidence.
  B) D
  C) It confuses a correlation with a cause.
  D) E
  E) It fails to consider other names than Wayne or John.

Q18. Education is failing those who leave with poor writing skills. B Students must be helped to recognise the importance of good literacy skills. C
  A) Many science graduates are unable to write in a grammatically correct way.
  B) D
  C) Employment often depends on good ability in literacy.
  D) E
  E) Students do not concentrate properly in lessons in school.

Q20. Two year degree courses will have the same amount of teaching per year as three year courses. B School examinations are easier now than they were 40 years ago. C
  A) Maths and physics are more important elements of engineering than they were 40 years ago.
  B) D
  C) Engineering students are less motivated than they were 40 years ago.
  D) E
  E) Two year degree courses will be more popular with students than three year courses.

Q21. Accidents caused by drivers falling asleep at the wheel are a greater problem than drink driving. B Commercial vehicle drivers and the police are more prone to falling asleep at the wheel because of the long hours they work. C The number of hours per day that commercial drivers should be allowed to drive should be
  A) reduced.
  B) D
  C) It will not be as easy to prosecute drivers for falling asleep at the wheel as it is for drink driving.
  D) E
  E) It would be unfair to prosecute people for falling asleep at the wheel.

Q22. Discover the movement of a pendulum produces a regular time measurement. B Develop the telescope. C
  A) Design an electric battery.
  B) D
  C) Design a thermometer.
  D) E
  E) Develop the microscope.

Q23. €1.26 B €1.24 C
  A) €1.30
  B) D
  C) €1.12
  D) E
  E) €1.18

Q24. Roughly half of what we need to be happy is decided by our genetic make up. B We may as well accept the idea that our potential for happiness in life is to some extent decided at birth. C
  A) Whether or not you are happy in life is either determined by your soul or your genes.
  B) D
  C) Whether or not you are happy in life is not something over which you yourself have any control.
  D) E
  E) The person you are at birth is the person you will be throughout your life.

[2014년 — 18문제]

Q1. ADMISSION TEST FOR THE DEGREE COURSE IN MEDICINE AND SURGERY Academic Year 2014/2015 General Knowledge and Logical Reasoning Over 30 years ago, the smallpox virus was eradicated (removed) from the natural environment, but examples of it are still preserved in two laboratories. It is planned, however, to destroy these remaining viruses. Given that this will be the first example of a deliberate destruction of an entire
  A) species, we should think again before destroying these viruses. Years ago we thought we had
  B) the right to kill as many creatures as we liked, but now we realise we have no such right.
  C) Furthermore, we cannot know the future; we cannot justify destroying something that could be
  D) of enormous value to us one day, valuable in ways we cannot even think of now. And anyway,
  E) what possible harm can captive viruses do to us?

Q3. One of the foolish but persisting fantasies of the Olympic movement is that the Games are, or
  A) were, or will be, or even ought to be, completely free of politics. It is difficult to understand how
  B) this foolish belief continues, but the facts are these: the nations lining up to host the games are
  C) motivated not by unattainable ideals but by a legitimate desire to promote the excellence of their
  D) citizens; and the nations who have boycotted the games in the past have done so to make
  E) genuine political points.

Q4. When driving, if the car in front of you brakes suddenly, you need to be able to stop without crashing into it. The easiest rule­of­thumb is the two second rule. You choose a reference point
  A) that the vehicle in front of you is passing then say aloud: 'Only a fool breaks the two second
  B) rule'. If you reach the reference point before you have finished the saying you need to pull back.
  C) This works at all speeds. However, when there are adverse road conditions or the road is
  D) narrow you need to double your braking distance. These practices will enable you to avoid such
  E) crashes.

Q5. The net shown can be folded to make a tetrahedron with each of the shapes showing on the outside.
  * 보기 일부 이미지 포함 — 원본 PDF 참조

Q7. Research reveals that, in a given period of the 20th century, top footballers (defined as those who had played for their country's team) lived, on average, almost 5 years longer than middle ranking footballers. We can conclude therefore that for the top footballers, success had a beneficial effect on their lifespan.

Q9. Despite much opposition to the idea, modern musical trends such as hip­hop have a place in the world of opera. Traditional opera is a powerful musical experience. However, modern musicians should not necessarily stick with the traditional form. Modern musical forms which
  A) fuse staged drama, singing and contemporary or ethnic trends in music are also powerful
  B) musical experiences. Glydebourne’s youth operas 'Misper' and 'Zoe', and its Mozart hiphopera,
  C) 'School 4 Lovers', enjoyed critical and box office success and attracted hip­hop audiences.
  D) Moving away from the snobbery of tradition gives a much wider audience access to
  E) transformative musical experience.

Q11. There is concern at the moment about the way in which football referees are treated by players during games. The Football Association and the Referees' Association feel that there is too
  A) much verbal (and physical) abuse directed at referees. Various solutions have been suggested
  B) such as only allowing the captain of each team to approach and talk to the referee. The major
  C) difficulty is how such new rules should be introduced. The preferred suggestion seems to be
  D) that the rules should be changed first in the amateur game, the aim being to improve discipline
  E) in the game from the bottom upwards, until the whole game is improved.

Q13. A golf tournament is played over 10 rounds, on successive Saturdays. The winner of each round scores 3 points and the player finishing second scores 1 point. The tournament is won by the competitor with the most points over the 10 rounds. Alan Vinci, Barry Durand, Carl Johansson and Daniel and Eric Lim were the participants in this year's tournament. All five won at least one round, but either Barry, Daniel or Eric finished second on each occasion. The 1­2 finishing order was different every round, and the Lim brothers didn't both score points in the same round at any time.
  A) Who won this year's tournament?
  B) Eric Lim
  C) Daniel Lim
  D) Barry Durand
  E) Carl Johansson

Q15. Last month Karl walked from Starton to Endham, raising money for charity. His target, successfully achieved, was to complete the walk in ten days. He started later than intended and had only completed 12 km by the end of the first day. However, he walked 45 km on each of the second, third and fourth days, and after the fifth day he was exactly half way. Poor weather on the sixth day restricted his progress, but 41 km on both the seventh and eighth days meant that he had completed exactly three­quarters of the walk with two days left. On the ninth day he covered three­fifths of the remaining distance,
  A) completing the last 36 km on the tenth day.
  B) How far did Karl walk from Starton to Endham?
  C) 360 km
  D) 240 km
  E) 328 km

Q16. There is a special offer on jars of coffee this week. Customers who buy two jars at the normal price have the option to buy up to four more jars at one quarter of the normal price.
  * 보기 일부 이미지 포함 — 원본 PDF 참조

Q17. The diagram below shows the layout of a game playing board with the square board numbered as indicated. The numbers on the board start with 1 on the bottom left and finish with 25 at the top right.
  * 보기 일부 이미지 포함 — 원본 PDF 참조

Q19. Smoking cigarettes causes a speeding up in the rate of blood flow, which in turn increases the risk of heart disease. It was thought that this speeding up of blood flow was caused solely by the
  A) gas carbon monoxide, which is absorbed during smoking, and not by nicotine, which is also
  B) absorbed from the smoke in the lungs. However, tests have shown that using nicotine patches
  C) (from which nicotine is absorbed through the skin) or chewing nicotine gum also causes the
  D) rate of blood flow to increase. This shows that the nicotine in cigarettes is also responsible for
  E) the increased risk of heart disease among smokers.

Q21. During a recent storm the plastic company logo fell off the outside of the office building of Fleesam Ltd. and broke cleanly into the two pieces shown below:
  * 보기 일부 이미지 포함 — 원본 PDF 참조

Q23. If for a number of hours each day you're having experiences on the computer where there are no consequences, that may have an implication for antisocial behaviour. In real life you can't undo something; you can't bring someone back to life once you've stabbed them. On a computer you can play the game again. It may be that for people who spend most of their time
  A) playing computer games involving killing others, real bleeding to death has no meaning. Studies
  B) of brain activity show that there is less pre­frontal cortex activity in the brains of screen­
  C) obsessed teenagers than in the brains of those who spend little time on computer games. The
  D) pre­frontal cortex area of the brain is where we process ideas of sequence, consequences and
  E) empathy.

Q25. 121 64
  * 보기 일부 이미지 포함 — 원본 PDF 참조

Q26. William Harvey, who wrote the book commonly referred to as ‘De Motu Cordis’ is famous for his description: of the interaction between antigens and antibodies. of how blood plasma carries heat and urea as well as carbon dioxide. of the different forms of blood cells and platelets. of the circulation of the blood. of how anaemia can be caused by a lack of iron.
  A) What does the letter P stand for in the international organisation OPEC?
  B) Physics
  C) Philosophy
  D) Petroleum
  E) Piracy

Q27. Which popular website was founded in 2004 by Mark Zuckerberg?
  A) Twitter
  B) Facebook
  C) eBay
  D) YouTube
  E) Wikipedia

Q29. Biology Which one of the following names the structure, in humans, that directly detects a change in blood glucose level and then the structure that responds to the change? Pituitary gland and liver Pancreas and pancreas Hypothalamus and pituitary gland Adrenal gland and pancreas
  A) Liver and adrenal gland
  B) Which one of the following statements about both asexual and sexual reproduction is correct?
  C) Only the gametes (and not body cells) undergo meiosis in sexual reproduction compared
  D) with both cell types in sexual reproduction.
  E) Mitosis leads to sperm formation in asexual reproduction and sexual reproduction.

[2015년 — 17문제]

Q1. General Knowledge and Logical Reasoning Although the Earth supports life, it has a mysterious carbon deficit. Compared with other bodies in the solar system the Earth has far less carbon than would be expected for a planet that supports life. Originally it was thought that in the inner region of the dust disc where the Earth formed, temperatures soared high enough for the carbon to boil away. However, observations of developing solar systems have now suggested that the temperature would not have been high enough. It is more likely that fire is to blame. Hot oxygen atoms would have readily combined
  A) with carbon, burning to produce carbon dioxide. There would have been fewer of these oxygen
  B) atoms further away from the Sun.
  C) Which one of the following, if true, would most strengthen the above argument?
  D) The carbon that is present on the Earth could have arrived at a later date from an
  E) asteroid.

Q2. Tom is having a celebration and needs to send out 50 invitation cards. The cards must be at least 6 cm wide and at least 8 cm high and Tom wants to put a photo on the card. Each type of card has a standard version and a deluxe version. The prices (per card) that have been quoted to Tom are shown in the table below: Width (cm) Height (cm) Photo? Personalised greeting? Price (standard)  Price (deluxe)

Q4. Now, it might be thought an amazing coincidence if Earth were the only planet in the galaxy on which intelligent life evolved. If it happened here, the one planet we have studied closely, surely one would expect it to have happened on a lot of other planets in the galaxy – planets we have not yet had the chance to examine. This objection, however, rests on a fallacy: it overlooks what is known as an 'observation selection effect', so it wouldn't be such a coincidence. Whether intelligent life is common or rare, every observer is guaranteed to originate from a place where intelligent life did, in fact, arise. Since only the successes give rise to observers who can
  A) wonder about their existence, it would be a mistake to regard our planet as a randomly selected
  B) sample from all planets.
  C) Which one of the following best expresses the main conclusion of the above argument?
  D) Our planet is not a randomly selected sample from all planets.
  E) However common intelligent life is, every observer will certainly originate from a place

Q5. Children are being encouraged to take up gardening through special events at shows and activities in schools. It is hoped that an interest in gardening, and particularly growing one's own food, will make children more interested in learning about their food and they will therefore be deterred from eating junk food. The initiative should be supported and spread to more schools as quickly as possible. Which one of the following, if true, would most weaken the above argument? The practical experience of gardening is not a traditional academic subject.
  A) The events to encourage children to garden also included stands where junk food was for
  B) sale.
  C) Some schools do not have a garden.
  D) It tends to be older people who are interested in gardening and growing their own food.
  E) Most children have enjoyed the events provided, but have not gained an interest in

Q6. Y N €0.90 €1.65

Q7. Y N €1.40 €1.90

Q8. Studies are taking place to assess the benefits to dental health of adding fluoride to drinking water, a process known as mass medication. The Health Minister has urged consideration of fluoridation, particularly in deprived areas where dental care is poor. Fluoride can occur naturally in the water because of fluoride containing minerals. Fluoride, if in the water, improves dental health by up to 50 percent. Even so, fluoridation should not take place. A campaign leader opposed to fluoridation has spoken of her experiences of living in a fluoridated area of the USA. She experienced feelings of apathy and depression; her 2 year old son showed autistic
  A) tendencies and had white flecks on his teeth. These symptoms disappeared when they
  B) returned home from the USA.
  C) Which one of the following is an underlying assumption of the argument above?
  D) Mass medication is always wrong.
  E) Fluoridation of water is a person's only source of fluoride.

Q10. N Y €1.00 €1.60

Q12. The table below shows the average mass of the cerebellum, which is a part of the brain, and total body mass, for a number of animal species. The cerebellum of a cat has an average mass of 5.3 g, while a cat's average body mass is 3.5 kg.
  A) Species
  B) Cerebellum mass (g)
  C) Body mass (g)
  D) Mouse
  E) 0.09

Q14. Looking in his rear­view mirror, Graham sensed that there was something wrong with the number plate of the car behind him. When the car overtook him and he saw its rear plate he realised that the front plate had been upside down.
  * 보기 일부 이미지 포함 — 원본 PDF 참조

Q16. Food producers are resisting pressure to reduce still further the levels of salt in food. Although it is proven that salt intake must be reduced by those with hypertension, there is no evidence that reducing salt intake prevents hypertension. So why should we all be deprived of the pleasures of salt in food? We certainly need to identify those with hypertension and give them advice on their salt intake, but why should everyone else be deprived of salt? Food producers are right to resist the pressure. Which one of the following best illustrates the principle underlying the argument above?
  A) Adding fluoride to drinking water has reduced tooth decay, but fluoride is unwelcome to
  B) some people. Instead, dentists should advise patients with tooth problems on better tooth
  C) care.
  D) The requirement to wear seatbelts has reduced deaths in car accidents but was
  E) unpopular when first introduced. People eventually accepted such changes even if it has

Q18. A farmer wishes to fix fencing rails to posts which are already in place. The posts are shown in the diagram. The farmer has a supply of rails, each one 2.4 m long. One rail or part of a rail is to be fixed between each pair of posts. (He can cut the rails into smaller lengths.) What is the smallest number of rails that he could use?

Q19. Deanna keeps a record of the petrol she puts into her car and the current distance it has covered so she can estimate her fuel consumption. When she puts petrol in, sometimes the tank is filled completely and she marks 'FULL' beside the entry if this is so, otherwise the tank is only partly filled.

Q20. A local museum wishes to exhibit a collection of butterflies which is mounted in nine narrow
  A) (only 0.2 m wide) display cases, each 1.5 m long. The museum wants to arrange four tables,
  B) each 2 m long and 1 m wide, in such a way that all the display cases can be placed around the
  C) edges. The room for the exhibition is 6 m by 6 m and there must be at least 1 m of clear floor
  D) space around the outside of the tables.
  E) Which one of the five arrangements shown would be satisfactory?

Q22. Which one of the following pairs of scholar/field of study is NOT correct? Amartya Sen ­ Economics Konrad Lorenz ­ Ethology Doris Lessing ­ Literature Max Weber ­ Pedagogy Ludwig Wittgenstein ­ Philosophy Which one of the following public figures was NOT awarded the Nobel Peace Prize?
  A) Aung San Suu Kyi
  B) Nelson Mandela
  C) Willy Brandt
  D) Mahatma Gandhi
  E) Martin Luther King

Q24. Biology The changes in concentration of hormones in a healthy woman's blood were monitored during several menstrual cycles. During which stage of the menstrual cycle was the concentration of oestrogen falling, the concentration of luteinising hormone (LH) and follicle­stimulating hormone (FSH) maximal and the progesterone concentration rising? at the start of menstruation
  A) at the end of menstruation
  B) four days before ovulation and the time of ovulation
  C) after ovulation but before the start of menstruation
  D) between the end of menstruation and four days before ovulation
  E) The following events occur during a reflex response to a person placing a hand on a hot object.

Q58. Pigeon 0.4 500 Squirrel 1.5 350 Rabbit
  A) 1.9
  B) 1800
  C) Dog
  D) 6.0
  E) 3500

[2016년 — 20문제]

Q1. General Knowledge and Logical Reasoning This is part of the tiled floor of the magic shop Spell It Out.

Q2. A factory has received an order for a product. It takes 9 operations to manufacture it. These may take place in any order and at any time in the manufacturing process but an individual worker stays with one operation from its beginning to its end. The number of hours for one worker to complete each operation is as follows:

Q3. Below is a picture of a biscuit tin with four identical sides. A set of these tins is to be made that are all distinguishable from each other by colour alone. The manufacturer will paint each of the four sides either red or blue. The top and bottom are not painted.

Q5. In a slalom skiing competition skiers tackle the course one at a time. Each skier makes two runs. The times for the two runs are added and the fastest total time determines the winner. Competitors who fail to finish their first run are not allowed to make a second run.

Q6. A delivery company opens its depot at 7:30 am. It uses large and small vans to make deliveries. The smaller vans take 10 minutes to load and then 1 hour to make the deliveries and return. The larger ones have a loading time of 30 minutes and return from deliveries after 2 hours. The driver of a large van starts loading at 8:00 am. If the driver of a small van is to make the maximum number of deliveries he can, how much later than the driver of the large van can he start loading if they are both to arrive back at the depot for lunch at 1:00 pm?
  A) 0 minutes
  B) 20 minutes
  C) 15 minutes
  D) 5 minutes
  E) 10 minutes

Q7. A bakery shop makes its own bread in batches to sell on site. Bakers always describe the quantities of other ingredients as a percentage of the weight of flour used. They will then use the percentages in the table below to calculate how much water, salt and fat are required. Today, the baker is planning to use 250 kg of flour to make White Bread.

Q8. 3.3 1.7 tuna 2.00 1579

Q10. All workers are able to complete all operations, but can only do one at a time. The product has to be ready in 16 hours. What is the minimum number of workers required to manufacture the product in the given time?

Q12. Children need to play in order to develop their thinking skills. When children play, they are merely going through scenarios, working out the consequences and implications of actions, puzzling out what might happen – the very same processes that adults have learned to do in their heads, the process more commonly known as 'thinking'! It follows that thinking and playing are really one and the same thing. Which one of the following best expresses the main conclusion of the above argument? Children need to be taught how to think about the future.
  A) Children who do not play will not be good thinkers.
  B) Playing and thinking are essentially two forms of the same activity.
  C) Children need to be allowed to play in order to develop their thinking skills.
  D) Playing is just an early version of abstract thinking and reasoning.
  E) What is a clone but a twin? What is genetic engineering or selective breeding but assisted

Q13. I have folded a square piece of paper in half, then in half again, then cut three pieces from the resulting smaller square, as indicated below:
  * 보기 일부 이미지 포함 — 원본 PDF 참조

Q15. Children born in Japan today can expect to live five years longer than their American counterparts. Life expectancy has been rising in all countries, but the slowest rate of increase has been in the USA. What could account for this, given that the percentage of people who smoke is roughly the same in all rich countries? Of course, the USA is the birthplace of fast food restaurants that sell unhealthy food. Moreover, a recent survey of American lifestyles has found that overeating and failure to exercise are widespread amongst the population. So we must assume that obesity and lack of exercise have caused the USA to lag behind in the
  A) increase in life expectancy.
  B) Which one of the following, if true, most weakens the above argument?
  C) Most rich countries have the same standard of medical expertise.
  D) The USA spends more money on fast food than any other nation.
  E) Japanese children had a healthier diet in the 1960s than they do today.

Q16. In the foyer of a company in London there are nine clocks showing the local time at each of the company's nine branches.

Q18. 3.8 1.7 turkey 2.20 1163

Q19. 14.3 1.7

Q20. 2.5 1.5 salad 1.50 931

Q22. 3.4 1.3 chicken 2.10 1327

Q24. Biology Which organelle contains RNA but not DNA? nucleolus mitochondrion
  A) chloroplast
  B) smooth endoplasmic reticulum
  C) ribosome
  D) An organism is heterozygous for two genes. These two genes make up part of the same DNA
  E) molecule.

Q26. 4.1 1.4 ham 1.90 1164

Q28. In 1688 the Irish philosopher William Molyneux asked whether a blind person who regained their vision could recognise by sight an object they had previously only known by touch. Richard Held and Pawan Sinha of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology attempted to answer this question in an experiment with five children in India who had just had successful surgery which gave them their sight for the first time. Within 48 hours of the operation the children were asked to feel a toy block without looking at it. They were then shown two blocks, one of which they had touched. They identified the orginal block just over half of the time and this is only a little better
  A) than guesswork. Recognising touched objects by sight alone improved within days.
  B) Which one of the following can be drawn as a conclusion of the above passage?
  C) Using children in experiments such as the one described above is morally wrong.
  D) Identifying an object by sight alone which had been touched but not seen previously is
  E) learned behaviour and not innate.

Q59. 1.5 None Baguette

[2017년 — 17문제]

Q1. General Knowledge and Logical Reasoning I have a tin of chocolates to share with some friends. In the tin are four types of chocolate – one type in red wrappers, one type in blue, one type in green and one type in yellow, with equal numbers of each. The tin is passed around in turn from friend to friend. When the tin gets to them: • John always takes three red chocolates.
  A) • Peter always takes one of each colour.
  B) • Jane always takes one yellow chocolate.
  C) • I always take two green chocolates.
  D) After six passings around of the tin, half of the chocolates remaining in the tin are blue.
  E) How many chocolates were there in the tin when it was full?

Q2. This is a view of a cross section of part of an aluminium window frame. The cross section is uniform throughout its length. Which one of the following is NOT a possible side view of this part of the aluminium window frame?
  * 보기 일부 이미지 포함 — 원본 PDF 참조

Q3. Sheelagh runs a business from London with regional headquarters located in seven cities – Jakarta, Nairobi, Prague, Ottawa, Moscow, Canberra and Hong Kong. The company also has
  A) plants in other cities shown in the table. Her senior managers at regional headquarters work
  B) from 8 am to 5.15 pm local time and constantly check their emails between these hours but are
  C) not available outside these hours. All her staff have an international time chart displayed at their
  D) place of work.
  E) At 12 noon in London it is:

Q4. I recently received a publications list and order form. I want to order seven items from the list. However, I noticed that the structure of the postage and packaging charges was very strange, as shown in the table below: I have decided that I will ask them to pack my order in the number of parcels that will have the lowest postal charge. What is the lowest postal charge for my seven items?
  A) £1.90
  B) £2.45
  C) £3.30
  D) £2.35
  E) £2.25

Q5. Alex’s bedroom is rectangular. If you stand at the doorway looking into the room, there is a square wardrobe on your right hand side in the corner. The bed is on the same side of the room as the wardrobe and is over half the length of the room. There is a desk along the other wall. Which one of these aerial views is the view of Alex’s bedroom?
  * 보기 일부 이미지 포함 — 원본 PDF 참조

Q7. The diagram below shows how 12 matchsticks can be used to create a grid containing 4 squares, arranged in rows of 2. I now intend to use matchsticks to create a grid containing 100 squares, arranged in 10 rows of 10. How many matchsticks do I need? 220 242
  A) 300
  B) 200
  C) 400
  D) E-cigarettes, which provide nicotine without cigarette smoke, have been praised by health
  E) campaigners. Research has suggested that success rates for quitting smoking are higher with

Q8. Though relatively few people know it by name, palm oil is found in over fifty per cent of processed supermarket goods, from soaps to snacks. This vegetable oil, which is taken from the fruit of the oil palm tree, causes a great deal of environmental concern. The clearing of tropical forests to grow oil palm plantations threatens the survival of orangutans and other endangered species. The land conversion often happens on carbon rich peat soils in a process which releases significant greenhouse gas emissions. Yet even some environmental organisations warn that alternative vegetable oil crops may require much larger areas of forest
  A) to be converted to agricultural land.
  B) Which one of the following is a conclusion that can be drawn from the above passage?
  C) A ban on palm oil alone would not solve all of the environmental problems associated with
  D) vegetable oil production.
  E) If farmers stopped clearing tropical forests for oil palm plantations, endangered orangutan

Q9. The distance from Ardale to Banby is 16 km and from Banby to Carston is a further 8 km in the same direction. David leaves Ardale at 11.00 and runs for an hour at 6 km / h. He rests for 20 minutes and then
  A) completes the rest of the distance to Banby at an average speed of 10 km / h. He chats with
  B) some friends in Banby for 20 minutes and then borrows a bicycle from one of them and cycles
  C) to Carston at an average speed of 16 km / h. David leaves Carston at 15.00 and cycles back
  D) over his route, arriving home at 15.50.
  E) Which one of the following correctly shows David’s distance from Ardale as a function of time?

Q11. It is common practice to look online for a loan or a mortgage. This has led to a large number of ‘comparison websites’ where you type in your details and they search a range of companies for you based on these details. Night after night, there are adverts on television emphasising how much time and money comparison sites could save you. The experience of one user should make you consider the wisdom of using such sites. She gave her details to a comparison website and received no useful results. However, for weeks afterwards she was bombarded with emails and phone calls from companies she had never heard of.
  A) Which one of the following is the best statement of the flaw in the above argument?
  B) It assumes using the internet is the only way to get a loan.
  C) It attacks the website and not what the company does.
  D) It assumes that comparison websites save customers money.
  E) It assumes everyone uses comparison websites.

Q13. The recently-appointed captain of the national football team has been publicly accused of adultery with several women, including the girlfriend of a former teammate. The newspapers have made a great deal of his extramarital activities and it has become a scandal. His behaviour has led him to be the subject of crude jokes. He has now been suspended from his duties. It is right that he has been removed from his position so that the team can start to pull together and have the best possible chance of winning the World Cup. Which one of the following is an underlying assumption of the above argument?
  A) The new captain’s actions have weakened team morale.
  B) This new captain should not have been appointed.
  C) If the new captain is fired, the national team will win the World Cup.
  D) The national team will not win the World Cup.
  E) Newspapers have the right to report on people’s personal lives.

Q14. Over the last ten years there has been a huge increase in the number of television programmes involving the work of forensic scientists. This media attention has been matched by a massive increase in the number of courses and qualifications available in this field. Although this new attention has led to greater public awareness, it has not led to the creation of more jobs in this field. The work of forensics professionals has continued unchanged. Therefore, those who choose to study these courses will find that there is fierce competition for difficult and unpleasant work.
  A) Which one of the following, if true, would most weaken the above argument?
  B) Each year around 1500 graduates in forensic science compete for 200 jobs in the sector.
  C) Many students of forensic science go on to pursue careers in other areas.
  D) New technologies have brought about a decrease in the number of forensics staff
  E) required in laboratories.

Q15. The table below shows calories burned depending on a person’s weight: Five friends choose the following exercise routine: Which one of the five friends burns the most calories?
  A) Holly
  B) Paul
  C) Harry
  D) Jessie
  E) Josie

Q17. Many banks encourage their customers to buy insurance against credit card fraud and other kinds of ‘identity theft’. But the banks are really protecting themselves. Customers who are victims of credit card fraud suffer inconvenience but they are unlikely to lose money: the costs of any fraudulent transactions are met by the bank. It is therefore unnecessary for customers to spend money on additional insurance services. Which one of the following is an underlying assumption of the above argument? Customers whose identities have been stolen would have benefited from the banks’
  A) additional insurance services.
  B) Additional insurance services are widely available for credit card customers.
  C) The banks’ additional insurance services protect only against the costs of fraudulent
  D) credit card transactions.
  E) People who are worried about identity theft worry only about their credit cards.

Q19. Many children from poor backgrounds would benefit from wearing spectacles but do not have them. Sometimes parents are not aware of their children’s poor eyesight, but most often they suffer from financial constraints. The government should provide free glasses to poor children with eyesight problems. A recent study of underprivileged students with poor vision demonstrated that those who were given free glasses enjoyed an improvement in test scores equivalent to almost a year of additional schooling. Using the most conservative estimate of the impact of schooling on salary, this would significantly increase an average school-leaver’s
  A) annual income and tax contributions, and by far more than the cost of a pair of glasses.
  B) Which one of the following best expresses the main conclusion of the above argument?
  C) Exam marking should take into account any disabilities the student might have.
  D) Parents should be educated about potential eyesight problems in children.
  E) Children from poor backgrounds with bad eyesight should be given additional schooling.

Q20. I leave Victoria at 8:07 and arrive at Three Bridges at 8:41. I need to catch a train from Three Bridges at 8:45 to either Arundel or Chichester. I want to spend at least four hours in Chichester and four hours in Arundel. I have no preference in which order I will visit the towns. I then need to return to Victoria. The tables below show extracts from the train timetables: What is the earliest possible time I can arrive back at Victoria?
  A) 19:18
  B) 20:20
  C) 19:47
  D) 19:15
  E) 18:47

Q22. Which one of the following introduced the metaphor of the ‘invisible hand’ in relation to a free trade economy? David Ricardo Thomas Robert Malthus Karl Marx Vilfredo Pareto Adam Smith
  A) Which one of the following theories was publicly announced to the Prussian Academy of
  B) Science on 25th November 1915?
  C) String theory
  D) Quantum theory
  E) The Big Bang theory

Q24. Biology Which of the following occurs in a healthy human testis cell before it undergoes meiosis? 1. DNA content of the nucleus doubles 2. spindle fibres form the spindle 3. crossing over 1, 2 and 3 2 and 3 only
  A) 1 and 2 only
  B) 1 only
  C) 1 and 3 only
  D) Which of the following components of a human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) contain peptide
  E) bonds?

[2018년 — 15문제]

Q1. General Knowledge and Logical Reasoning Alpha, Beta and Gamma are the three political parties in the Parliament. There are 360 seats in the Parliament. Before last week’s General Election, each party held 120 seats. In last week’s election: There was no change in 216 seats. Alpha gained 15 seats from Beta and 23 seats from Gamma.
  A) Beta gained 31 seats from Alpha and 41 seats from Gamma.
  B) Gamma gained 24 seats from Alpha and 10 seats from Beta.
  C) Which pie chart, suitably labelled, shows the current state of the parties in the Parliament?
  D) A
  E) B

Q2. The bar chart below shows the number of endangered species between 2000 and 2002 per animal class. Which one of the following pieces of information can be inferred from the bar chart above? The number of species of insects that were endangered was almost equal to the number of species of fish that were endangered over the three-year period. The number of endangered species of mammals remained constant over the three-year period.
  A) The number of endangered species of reptiles increased over the three-year period while
  B) that of amphibians decreased.
  C) In 2001, there were exactly four times as many endangered species of birds as there
  D) were endangered species of reptiles.
  E) More species of bird became endangered over the three-year period than any other

Q4. Competition between restaurants is fierce and restaurateurs are trying to gain recognition for the quality of their food. Research from Oxford University might just give them that edge over their competitors. More than a hundred people participated in a series of experiments to see if the taste of food was affected by the cutlery used to eat it. The study found that desserts tasted better when eaten using small spoons. Similarly yoghurt tasted creamier when eaten with a black spoon. Cheese cut with a heavy knife tasted more expensive than cheese cut with a lighter knife.
  A) Which one of the following is a conclusion that can be drawn from the above passage?
  B) People choose restaurants only because of the quality of the food.
  C) Restaurants should think carefully about what cutlery they use.
  D) Restaurants should pay less attention to food presentation.
  E) Customers pay attention to the cutlery they are using.

Q6. In a family, each of the six children has one packet of crisps on each weekday (Monday to Friday) for their packed lunch. The triplets have Cheese flavoured crisps, the twins have Paprika flavoured crisps, and the oldest child always has Chilli flavoured crisps. The exact number of packets of crisps needed are purchased at the same time for the four-week period. The table below shows the price of single packets of crisps and multipacks of crisps of the same flavour. A multipack is a discounted collection of a number of single packets of one flavour.
  A) What is the most money that can be saved for the four weeks by purchasing the appropriate
  B) combination of multipacks and single packs of the different flavours rather than all single packs?
  C) £43.50
  D) £23.50
  E) £8.00

Q8. Food manufacturers should reduce sugar levels in processed foods. This is because there are too many overweight and obese people. Since people are unable or unwilling to make sensible decisions for themselves, manufacturers must take responsibility for rectifying a problem to which they contribute. Which one of the following illustrates the principle used in the above argument? Cigarette packets should have plain packaging and display government health warnings. In order to reduce sugar intake, foods with high sugar content should be taxed more
  A) heavily.
  B) Power tools should have clear instructions in order to reduce the number of accidents
  C) caused by incorrect use.
  D) Labelling on food should be improved so that consumers are clear about the level of
  E) sugar in a product.

Q9. A regular tetrahedron is made by fastening together four triangles made from card coloured on one side only, as shown in the diagram below. Which one of the following is NOT a possible view of this tetrahedron when looked at from above?
  * 보기 일부 이미지 포함 — 원본 PDF 참조

Q11. You want to buy a house in your local area with three bedrooms and a garage. However, you only want to spend €150,000. Houses in your local area with three bedrooms and a garage never sell for less than €200,000. You will have to spend more to get the house you want. Which one of the following most closely matches the logical structure of the above argument? You want a well-paid job with lots of holiday and the chance to retire early. Such jobs do not exist, so you need to adjust your expectations. You want to study mathematics but you don’t like numerical reasoning. Mathematics is
  A) essentially numerical reasoning, so you should choose a different subject.
  B) You want a large powerful car that is fuel efficient. Large powerful cars are never fuel
  C) efficient, so you will have to spend more on fuel if you want a large powerful car.
  D) You want to buy the painting at the auction. Lots of other people want to buy it, so you
  E) have to be prepared to bid a lot of money to be successful.

Q13. Recent research in the USA has found that areas with more dentists per person have much lower rates of obesity than neighbouring areas of similar population size. Clearly, public health authorities concerned with obesity rates should focus more resources on the provision of dental care. Dentists are a neglected asset in the struggle against the serious health problems associated with obesity. Which one of the following is the best statement of the flaw in the above argument? It assumes dental care in the USA is somewhat similar to that found elsewhere.
  A) It assumes that obesity rates should be a priority concern for public health authorities.
  B) It ignores factors that might prevent public health authorities from spending more on
  C) obesity and related conditions.
  D) It ignores the fact that help and advice concerning obesity can be delivered in a variety of
  E) ways.

Q14. The table below shows how to choose an appropriate glue for different materials you may want to bond together. For example, to bond cork and rubber you can use either rubber contact glue or epoxy glue.
  * 보기 일부 이미지 포함 — 원본 PDF 참조

Q16. Mr and Mrs Massa’s rectangular lawn measures 10 metres by 6 metres. They pay Giovanni to cut the grass and trim the edges. Giovanni charges a fixed rate per square metre of grass to be cut and another fixed rate per metre of edge to be trimmed. For Mr and Mrs Massa’s lawn, this results in a charge of $12 to cut the grass and $8 to trim the edges. Now, Mr and Mrs Costa next door want Giovanni to do the same for them. Their lawn is also rectangular and measures 15 metres by 9 metres. If he charges them at the same rate as the Massas, how much will Giovanni charge Mr and Mrs
  A) Costa, in total, for cutting their grass and trimming their edges?
  B) $35
  C) $30
  D) $45
  E) $39

Q18. A 300 g packet of Scottish oatcakes has the following information on the side of the packet: How many oatcakes are there in the packet?

Q19. A puzzle is made up of these three pieces. The pieces can be flipped and rotated, but they cannot overlap. Which one of the following shapes CANNOT be made using these three pieces?
  * 보기 일부 이미지 포함 — 원본 PDF 참조

Q21. A train is travelling at 30 mph towards a terminus which is 120 miles away. At the same time, a pigeon starts flying from the terminus towards the train. When it meets the train, it turns and flies back towards the terminus and, when it arrives there, it turns and flies back towards the train again. The pigeon flies at an average speed of 40 mph. The pigeon continues to do this until the train reaches the terminus. Assuming that no time was lost in each turnaround, how far (to the nearest 10 miles) does the pigeon fly altogether?
  A) 160 miles
  B) 180 miles
  C) 240 miles
  D) 140 miles
  E) 120 miles

Q22. ‘Internet addiction’ is about to be classified as a recognised psychiatric disorder. Internet addiction is characterised by a number of signs: excessive use of the internet; anger or depression if access is lost; isolation from friends and family; and, most significantly, poor educational achievement. This should make us cautious about incorporating computer-based learning into all aspects of education. Educationalists should consider the long-term problems associated with extensive internet use as well as its immediate attractions. Which one of the following is an assumption of the above argument?
  A) All computer-based learning includes internet use.
  B) Students are unable to regulate their internet use.
  C) It is a bad idea to incorporate computer-based learning into education.
  D) Classifiying internet addiction as a recognised psychiatric disorder will help lead to a cure.
  E) Excessive internet use is the only cause of poor educational achievement.

Q24. Biology Which of the following can be a result of exercise in a healthy human? 1. a decrease in muscle pH 2. an increase in blood pH 3. more blood flows to certain organs 1 and 2 only 1 and 3 only
  A) 1, 2 and 3
  B) 3 only
  C) 2 and 3 only
  D) The enzyme HIV-1 protease is produced by the HIV virus.
  E) The enzyme is formed from two identical chains of 99 amino acids. In each chain, amino acids

[2019년 — 14문제]

Q1. General Knowledge and Logical Reasoning At the Shawilde Theatre, tickets are priced as follows: Front stalls £35 Centre stalls £28 Rear stalls £20
  A) Every row in the theatre contains 30 seats.
  B) Last night’s performance was a sell-out and the ticket sales were £21 000. Exactly 60% of this
  C) income came from tickets for the centre stalls, and the rest was split equally between the front
  D) stalls and the rear stalls.
  E) How many rows of seats make up the centre stalls at the Shawilde Theatre?

Q2. Increasingly, the quality of a teacher, and of his or her lessons, is to be judged by feedback from their pupils. This is dangerous, as pupils have a tendency to focus too much on whether or not they enjoyed the lesson, in other words, on how much ‘fun’ they found it. The purpose of education, however, is not to keep children entertained; it is not to make their lives more fun. Arguably, it is not even to make them happier, per se. The purpose of schools is to make their pupils better, more educated people. This is all that matters, and therefore it is whether the teacher succeeds at this – not at being a children’s entertainer – that counts.
  A) Which one of the following is a flaw in the above argument?
  B) By simply asserting that the purpose of education is not even to make people happier, the
  C) argument rests on a questionable contention.
  D) It doesn’t specify precisely what it means by making someone a better, more educated
  E) person.

Q3. The plan of a domestic lawn with dimensions in metres is shown below. The lawn area is to be reseeded. Seed must be applied at the rate of 50 grams per square metre. Appropriate grass seed is available only in the following quantities:
  * 보기 일부 이미지 포함 — 원본 PDF 참조

Q4. Once again it has become fashionable for householders to replace their carpets with wooden floors. Sales of laminate and solid floors, such as oak, have seen a massive increase in the last ten years. This trend seems more in tune with our eco-friendly aspirations: carpets are often plastic-based and use vast quantities of underlying material, or underlay, made from petrochemicals. For this reason, it seems unlikely that wooden floors will go out of fashion in the near future. Which one of the following, if true, most weakens the above argument?
  A) Carpets can harbour dust mites and allergens.
  B) Not all wooden floors need a layer of underlay.
  C) Most types of laminate and wood floors use petrochemicals in their manufacture.
  D) Wooden floors may look longer-lasting but can be more easily damaged than carpets.
  E) Sales of carpets made of synthetic materials have decreased in the last ten years while

Q5. Five girls competed in five events at their sports day. The following scoring system was used for
  A) each event:
  B) Before the events started, each girl nominated the event in which they wished to play their joker
  C) card – this doubled the number of points gained in that event. The table below shows the results
  D) of each event and the athletes’ final points scores:
  E) How many of the girls won the event in which they had elected to play their joker?

Q7. A study involving a brain-training exercise was carried out on more than a thousand adults aged 65 and over, some of whom later developed dementia. Results showed that the benefits of the five-week mental agility course undertaken by some of the adults lasted for at least five years. This led to an improvement in everyday activities such as money management and the ability to do housework. If those with trained brains developed dementia, they did so later than those in the control group. The results also showed that, for those people in the study who developed dementia, after the diagnosis their mental decline occurred faster than for those who had not
  A) undertaken the training.
  B) Which one of the following can be drawn as a conclusion from the above passage?
  C) People do a decreasing amount of housework as they grow older.
  D) It is preferable to have swift mental decline once dementia develops.
  E) Older people do not perform mentally challenging tasks unless forced to do so.

Q8. A student packs books into a box which is 20 cm high, 30 cm wide, and 40 cm long. She ties string around the box in the pattern shown. A further 20 cm of string is needed for a knot.

Q9. Four of the following five pieces can be fitted together to make the above pattern. Which one of the pieces is NOT needed?
  * 보기 일부 이미지 포함 — 원본 PDF 참조

Q11. Researchers have tried to establish reasons for a recent drop in the catch of marlin near the Madeira coast. This drop cannot be explained by environmental conditions; there was no significant change in the temperature or composition of the region’s water. Nor could one blame the human factor, because the size of the fishing fleet, catch quotas and pollution levels have been strictly observed. The environmentalists then analysed the records of the fishing catch of marlin over the last six centuries. This research identified that regular five-year periods of significant decrease in the catch alternated with fifteen-year periods of gradual growth of the
  A) catch. In view of this, the study concluded that the current drop in the marlin catch is part of a
  B) long-term cycle related to fish migration and food-chain balance.
  C) Which one of the following is an underlying assumption of the above argument?
  D) There is no correlation between the fishing catch today and the deep-sea stock of marlin
  E) in the sixteenth century.

Q14. Which one of the following is NOT a stated purpose of the United Nations? To achieve international co-operation in solving international problems To encourage peaceful trade between nations To develop friendly relations among nations To maintain international peace and security To be a centre for harmonizing the actions of nations Which one of the following composed the opera Madama Butterfly?
  A) Giacomo Puccini
  B) Richard Wagner
  C) Georges Bizet
  D) Gioachino Rossini
  E) Giuseppe Verdi

Q17. Which one of the following plays by William Shakespeare is NOT set in Italy? A Midsummer Night’s Dream Romeo and Juliet Much Ado About Nothing Othello The Taming of the Shrew Which one of these events in world history happened most recently?
  A) The building of the Taj Mahal
  B) The crowning of Charlemagne
  C) The October Revolution in the Russian Empire
  D) The Taiping Rebellion in China
  E) The fall of the Western Roman Empire

Q20. The 'prisoner’s dilemma' is a common example analysed in the field of Quantum theory Chaos theory Asymptotic theory Network theory Game theory Which one of the following religions is NOT considered to have been revealed to or founded by
  A) an individual?
  B) Confucianism
  C) Hinduism
  D) Islam
  E) Buddhism

Q22. Which one of the following literary works does NOT originate in the corresponding country? The Divine Comedy – Italy Oedipus Rex – Greece The Poems of Rumi – China Don Quixote – Spain The Tale of Genji – Japan The governance of modern states is often based on the separation of which three powers?
  A) Legislative – elective – executive
  B) Regulatory – executive – judicial
  C) Electoral – regulatory – jurisprudential
  D) Legislative – elective – jurisprudential
  E) Legislative – executive – judicial

Q23. Biology An electron microscope (EM) was used to view a cell. The maximum dimension of the cell was observed at a magnification ×30 000. The image on the EM screen showed a maximum length of 30 mm. Which of the following mature healthy cells was being magnified?
  A) one coccus bacterium in a Staphylococcus cluster
  B) one palisade cell from a wheat plant
  C) one mature human red blood cell
  D) one sensory neuron from a human
  E) one lymphocyte from a human

[2020년 — 10문제]

Q2. General Knowledge and Logical Reasoning In some countries, prisoners may purchase books with the money they earn by working. Hence receiving gifts of books may discourage prisoners from undertaking paid work while in prison. This work is important in building self-esteem and encouraging a work ethic among prisoners. In any case, prisoners have access to books through the prison library. Therefore prisoners should not be allowed to receive parcels containing books from friends or relatives while they are serving their sentence.
  A) Which one of the following, if true, most strengthens the above argument?
  B) Many parcels of books sent by relatives or friends have been found to contain illegal
  C) drugs.
  D) Prisoners often read detective stories which may encourage them to glamorise crime.
  E) The range of books available in prison libraries is limited.

Q3. A piece of paper is laid on a table in landscape orientation (i.e. the longer side running left to right and the shorter side running top to bottom). This piece of paper is then folded in half four times, alternately by moving the left hand side across over the right hand side and folding, and by moving the top half down over the bottom
  A) half and then folding. After each fold a dot is made with a pen in the centre of the face showing
  B) on the table.
  C) After the four folds and four dots, the paper is unfolded in the reverse sequence and is then
  D) turned over so that the four dots are showing.
  E) What is the pattern of the dots on the paper? (Dotted lines represent the fold marks)

Q4. As part of a maths project, a class of 30 children conduct a survey amongst themselves of how many brothers and sisters they have. They each write their name in the appropriate space on the chart below. No one in the class has a brother or sister who is also in the class. How many of the 30 families involved in the survey have a total of 3 or more children?
  * 보기 일부 이미지 포함 — 원본 PDF 참조

Q5. 36% of the contents of a tin of sweets have been eaten. Today, 25% of the remaining sweets will be eaten. The same number of sweets will be eaten on each of the following 2 days. What % of its original contents will it then contain?

Q6. LoCost sells three different types of washing powder: Zoom, Zap and Ownbrand. Zoom is a double concentrate brand needing only half the amount of powder used by the other two brands. Which one of the boxes of powder below represents best value for money?
  * 보기 일부 이미지 포함 — 원본 PDF 참조

Q8. In 1938 the Dutch artist Piet Mondrian left Paris to escape the threat of German invasion and went to live in London, where he painted what are now regarded as his best works. Mondrian had the option of moving to a more rural area in England, but chose London because of his love of the diverse and vibrant culture of big cities. This explains why London has more artists living in it than any other city in England. Which one of the following is an underlying assumption of the above passage? London is a big city because all the artists who live there boost its size and population.
  A) There is less inspiration for artists in rural areas.
  B) Artists can only create great works if they are happy and relaxed.
  C) Other big cities in England have the same attractive features as London.
  D) Other artists make the same choice as Mondrian for the same reasons.
  E) People who take their holidays in Las Vegas love to gamble. Gerry will be going to France for his

Q10. Jeff is looking to buy a new car. He will only be using it for commuting to his workplace for 1 year and will have a total annual mileage of 20 000. He wants to buy the car which would make his total spend over the year, including the initial cost of the car, the lowest. Using the table above, which type of car should he buy? diesel hydrogen petrol
  A) autogas
  B) electric
  C) Although the idea of a driverless vehicle seems like the stuff of science fiction, we are moving
  D) very close to the reality of self-driving cars. But we are so engrossed in the technology that we
  E) are ignoring the legal implications – and legislating for new scenarios takes time. A whole new

Q13. Which one of the following was the first human to complete an orbit of the Earth in 1961? Valentina Tereshkova Yuri Gagarin Neil Armstrong John Glenn Buzz Aldrin The name of the German mathematician Carl Friedrich Gauss is famously associated with
  A) the normal distribution curve
  B) the sine function
  C) the law of supply and demand
  D) Bayes’ theorem
  E) the uncertainty principle

Q16. Which one of the following is the director of the film Amarcord ? Stanley Kubrick Francis Ford Coppola François Truffaut Alfred Hitchcock Federico Fellini Which of the following languages is not a member of the ‘Romance’ language family?
  A) Bulgarian
  B) Spanish
  C) Romanian
  D) Catalan
  E) French

Q19. The Fields medal is a prestigious award in the field of Economics Music Mathematics Psychology Biology Which of these people did NOT win the Nobel Prize in Literature?
  A) Pablo Neruda
  B) Bob Dylan
  C) Thomas Mann
  D) Charles Dickens
  E) Harold Pinter

[2021년 — 11문제]

Q2. General Knowledge and Logical Reasoning A young woman (A), knowing that she was dying, requested that her mother (B), who was awaiting a kidney transplant, should be allowed to receive her kidneys after her death. The request was not allowed, and A¶s kidneys were received by another patient (C), who was higher up the waiting list than B because his medical need for a transplant was more urgent. The committee overseeing transplant decisions argued that the system it used had to be administered solely in accordance with the rationale behind its waiting list. Their decision
  A) seemed to others unduly bureaucratic, especially as B will be left to care for A¶s young child.
  B) Which one of the following best illustrates the principle behind the committee¶s decision?
  C) Decisions on transplants should focus on the medical need of the potential recipient.
  D) Decisions on transplants cannot be influenced by emotions.
  E) Donations between family members are not allowed.

Q4. For many years, children and young people have been protected from exploitation by the entertainment industry. In recent years, however, the number of young people suddenly thrust into the limelight has increased, and many of them feel that they must seize any opportunity to achieve recognition before this window passes them by. Dealing with fame, performing in front of large audiences, the rigours of rehearsal and the general stresses of what is a difficult occupation take maturity and can rob children of their childhood. Rejection, disappointment and failure are felt more keenly by young people because they lack wider experience and this can
  A) make for a very unhappy childhood. These factors would indicate that young performers need
  B) further protection by law.
  C) Which one of the following best expresses the main conclusion of the above argument?
  D) Young performers need further protection by law.
  E) Young people can be suddenly thrust into the limelight.

Q6. Of all the food we buy, bread suffers the worst fate when it comes to waste. 32% of it ends up being thrown away. We value other types of food a lot more, as the average for all food and drink being wasted is 15%. The proportion of meat and fish thrown away is below average (13%) and our most precious item is alcohol ± we throw away just 6% of it. Which one of the following is an underlying assumption of the above argument? The main reason why we throw food away is that we do not value it much. Bread is a low-quality food.
  A) We should be more moderate when it comes to buying bread.
  B) The more expensive a food or drink is, the less likely it is that it will be wasted.
  C) Bread goes stale faster so is more likely to be thrown away.
  D) In a survey of cats¶ eating habits, 10% of the cats tested showed a clear preference for
  E) Moggiemeat, 20% preferred Fuss-a-Puss and 40% preferred Yummy Paws. An additional 6

Q8. It is usual, when seating people round a table at a social function, to alternate males with females, but if there are unequal numbers of each, this is impossible. At one party, 14 women and only 6 men were present. They were seated round a circular table so that as few women as possible had no male sitting directly next to them. How many women had no male sitting directly next to them?

Q9. When I first woke up early this morning the display of my bedside digital clock showed: I presumed that it was faulty, but, after drifting off to sleep again, when I next awoke and saw the clock I realised that someone must have turned the clock upside down and that it was exactly an hour and a half since I had looked at it before. What did I see when I woke up the second time? A
  A) B
  B) C
  C) D
  D) E
  E)  UCLES

Q12. Teams from five US states have reached the final of a competition. The event organisers are trying to design a sign for each state. One idea involves the name, in capital letters, being placed vertically on a sign board which spins when one of the team presses their buzzer to answer a question. They want the sign to read correctly regardless of whether it is read from the front or the back. Unfortunately they realise that most of the states for which this would have worked have not reached the final.
  A) Which one of the following is the only state in the final for which this style of sign would work?
  B) Hawaii
  C) Alabama
  D) Idaho
  E) Montana

Q15. What does the letter A stand for in the international organisation FAO? Agriculture Architecture Aerospace Automotive Aesthetics Which of the following pairs of theatre/city is the only correct one?
  A) Metropolitan Opera House ± New York
  B) San Carlo ± Venice
  C) The Bolshoi Theatre ± Saint Petersburg
  D) La Fenice ± Florence
  E) The Palais Garnier Opera House ± Brussels

Q18. Which one of the following institutions of the European Union is elected by direct universal suffrage? European Parliament European Commission Court of Justice of the European Union European Economic and Social Committee Council of the European Union
  A) Which one of the following directors directed the films that make up The Godfather trilogy?
  B) Francis Ford Coppola
  C) Martin Scorsese
  D) Sergio Leone
  E) Brian De Palma

Q21. Which one of the following treaties established the European Coal and Steel Community (ECSC)? Paris Lisbon Amsterdam Nice Rome
  A) Which one of the following global organisations sets and enforces rules of trade between
  B) nations?
  C) WTO
  D) World Bank
  E) IMF

Q22. The expression µperfect bicameral system¶ refers to the legislative procedure that assigns identical powers to the two chambers of a parliament. the judicial system whereby the first sentence must be confirmed by the first round of appeal.
  A) the form of government that assigns identical power to two institutional figures.
  B) the kind of parliamentary monarchy where monarch and parliament have the same
  C) powers.
  D) the perfect separation of the magistrate judge and public prosecutor.
  E)  UCLES

Q23. Biology Which of the following types of nucleic acid is/are found in viruses? 1  single-stranded DNA 2  double-stranded DNA 3  RNA 1, 2 and 3
  A) 1 and 2 only
  B) 2 only
  C) 1 and 3 only
  D) 2 and 3 only
  E)  UCLES

[2022년 — 13문제]

Q2. General Knowledge and Logical Reasoning We have two standard forms of treatment for depression: antidepressant medication and psychological therapy. But over the last 30 years these treatments have not reduced either the prevalence of, or the disability caused by, depression: it is likely to remain a significant and largely intractable mental health problem. There are three key issues here: access, compliance and relapse. Access to treatment tends to be restricted to the minority of people who live in urban areas of wealthy countries. But even those who have access to care do not always
  A) comply with treatment recommendations – for many understandable reasons. To compound all
  B) this, high numbers of people who respond well to treatment later relapse: this is one of the
  C) reasons why depression remains so widespread.
  D) Which one of the following best expresses the main conclusion of the above argument?
  E) Depression is likely to remain a significant and largely intractable mental health problem.

Q4. What is the secret of success? The question is as old as philosophy itself. The Greeks argued that it boiled down to the possession and exercise of certain character traits, such as generosity and bravery. But new research emerging from social psychology suggests you have to be self- confident to be successful. The study, involving over 200 successful people from all walks of life, comprised detailed interviews and the observation of mental and physical problem solving. The research found that all of the participants had a strong belief in their own abilities and persevered in the face of challenges because they thought they could do it. If you want to be
  A) successful, then, you must have faith in your own abilities.
  B) Which one of the following is the best statement of the flaw in the above argument?
  C) It assumes that self-confidence is responsible for success, and not vice versa.
  D) It relies on different senses of the expression ‘self-confidence’.
  E) It ignores the significance of other factors, such as luck.

Q6. Individuals accept deliberate harm being done to human beings and other living creatures for a variety of reasons. Whether it is self-defence, the need to kill animals for food, or some other reason, many – if not most – people who consider themselves to have ‘good morals’ will generally agree to the intentional killing of other beings if there is adequate justification for doing so. However, one cannot justify killing without complete knowledge of what those who are killed go through. Thus, people who choose to eat meat should find out about how the animals they consume are reared and killed. Otherwise, people cannot truly accept full responsibility for their
  A) decision-making.
  B) Which one of the following best illustrates the principle used in the above argument?
  C) Citizens who support imposing the death penalty in some criminal cases should educate
  D) themselves about the procedures used to administer it.
  E) A lawyer prosecuting an individual for murder should be aware of any serious difficulties in

Q7. There are 10 students in a class and they like visiting each other. A visit means that one student visits the home of another student. We know that each student in the class has visited the same number of students. No two students in the class have both visited each other. What is the maximum number of students that a student in this class could have visited?

Q8. I am planning a one-way flight and I can fly with one of the following five companies. * None of the three maximum dimensions can be exceeded. I have two bags, one of size 52 × 40 × 22 cm and one of size 40 × 30 × 20 cm. I am happy to take either bag with me. I need to have priority boarding. Which company should I choose if I wish to spend as little as possible? WassAir BritAir
  A) EasAir
  B) TowAir
  C) MistAir
  D) IMAT 2022
  E) © Cambridge University Press & Assessment 2022

Q9. IMAT 2022 © Cambridge University Press & Assessment 2022

Q10. On a volcanic island, scientists plan to install sensors to monitor ground motions and predict volcanic activity. The outline of the island is shown below. The shaded area in the middle is the volcano.
  A) A sensor cannot be installed on the volcano itself but can be installed on any one of the other
  B) squares. Each sensor takes measurements from the square on which it is installed and the
  C) surrounding squares. See an example below.
  D) What is the minimum number of sensors that need to be installed to take measurements of the
  E) entire area of the island (excluding the volcano)?

Q13. Which one of the following spoke to the United Nations on 12th July 2013 to call for a worldwide access to education? Malala Yousafzai Aung San Suu Kyi Benazir Bhutto Kofi Annan Barack Obama
  A) Which of the following dancing traditions is NOT correctly matched to its place of origin?
  B) Flamenco – Argentina
  C) Bharatnatyam – India
  D) Samba – Brazil
  E) Mambo – Cuba

Q16. Which of the following European languages is NOT categorised as a Slavic language? Lithuanian Slovene Polish Ukrainian Czech Which of the following philosophers is considered one of the founders of analytic philosophy?
  A) Bertrand Russell
  B) Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz
  C) Francis Bacon
  D) Michel Foucault
  E) Hans Jonas

Q19. Which one of the following chemical elements was discovered by Marie and Pierre Curie? Polonium Hydrogen Uranium Nitrogen Boron Which of the following European countries does NOT recognise a denomination of Christianity
  A) as its state religion?
  B) Spain
  C) England
  D) Malta
  E) Greece

Q20. Which of the following countries never had a female prime minister in the 20th century? Sweden Israel
  A) India
  B) United Kingdom
  C) Pakistan
  D) IMAT 2022
  E) © Cambridge University Press & Assessment 2022

Q21. Biology Which diagram shows the correct hydrogen bonds between bases of a section of DNA? A
  * 보기 일부 이미지 포함 — 원본 PDF 참조

Q22. IMAT 2022 © Cambridge University Press & Assessment 2022

[2023년 — 3문제]

Q1. .    1  <
  A) 
  B) 
  C) ]
  D) <
  E) %

Q6. ( (

Q9.     1
  A) 
  B) 
  C) 6
  D) (
  E) (

[2024년 — 9문제]

Q1. Who is the author of the famous novel To the Lighthouse?
  A) Virginia Wolf
  B) Mary Shelley
  C) Jane Austen
  D) Emily Dickinson
  E) Agatha Christie

Q2. Based on historical records, we can say that many ancient societies devised symbols to represent  numbers and solutions to mathematical problems. Although thinkers began to take the first steps  towards mathematics early on, it can be asserted that only with Greek civilisation did this discipline  acquire the abstract and general characteristics that render it distinct and render it a unique science.  It is noteworthy that mathematics evolved into an abstract and general science at a deliberate pace.  Documents from pre-Greek civilisations indicate that solutions to mathematical problems were  confined to specific, tangible cases. These documents convey the impression that mathematical  concepts were communicated sporadically and non-methodically (occasionally even fortuitously),  and were treated as useful information geared towards practical outcomes.  MANARA, LUCCHINI Momenti del pensiero matematico - Mursia    Which of the following CANNOT be inferred from the text?
  A) Since antiquity, mathematics has been characterized by abstractness and generality.
  B) In antiquity, mathematical notions were not communicated in a methodical manner.
  C) Symbols representing numbers had already been adopted in antiquity.
  D) In antiquity, mathematical notions were geared towards practical outcomes.
  E) The evolution of mathematics has been an extremely slow process.

Q3. The Hundred Years' War was principally a conflict between which of the following  kingdoms?
  A) The Kingdom of France and the Kingdom of England
  B) The Kingdom of Aragon and the Kingdom of France
  C) The Kingdom of Aragon and The Kingdom of Castile
  D) The Kingdom of Castile and the Kingdom of Portugal
  E) The Kingdom of England and the Kingdom of Portugal

Q4. In which of the following is the verb passive?
  A) The deeds of Aeneas were sung by Virgil.
  B) Many students read Greek tragedies in high school.
  C) In the Gallic Wars, Julius Caesar described in detail his military campaign to conquer  Gaul.
  D) In one of his works, Plato associates solid forms to the four elements: octahedron to air,  tetrahedron to fire, cube to earth, and icosahedron to water.
  E) In the Iliad, Homer sings the deeds of the Pelide Achilles.         2 Logical reasoning and problem-solving

Q5. The following table shows the results of a test:        To pass the test, a mark of higher than 5 is needed. What percentage of the candidates  passed the test?
  A) 25%
  B) 24%
  C) 20%
  D) 30%
  E) 50%

Q6. Shelly is one of 1500 participants in a Latin contest. 12% of the participants will receive  as a prize either a silver-plated or gold-plated pen. If the number of silver-plated pens is  twice the number of gold-plated ones, what is the probability that Shelly will receive a  gold-plated one?
  A) 4 %
  B) 33 %
  C) 8 %
  D) 67 %
  E) 6 %

Q7. Two consecutive discounts of 10% and 20% are equal to a single discount of:
  A) 28%
  B) 25%
  C) 30%
  D) 18%
  E) 15%

Q8. Stacie builds a cube using 343 blocks of wood. She decides to paint the cube green. How  many of the wooden blocks will have at least one side painted green?
  A) 218
  B) 125
  C) 245
  D) 238
  E) 105

Q9. “When he takes the train, Marco always arrives at work on time.”    Which of the following statements can be deduced from the preceding proposition?
  A) Marco arrived late; therefore he did not take the train.
  B) Marco arrived late; therefore he took the train.
  C) Marco arrived on time; therefore he missed the train.
  D) Marco did not take the train; therefore he arrived late.
  E) Marco took his car; therefore he arrived on time.    Biology

[2025년 — 9문제]

Q1. "Other serious conditions (the frequency cannot be determined based on available data):  yellowing of the skin or the whites of the eyes (indicative of severe liver cell damage or jaundice),  or symptoms such as fever, rash, and kidney enlargement. These may sometimes be accompanied  by painful urination and lower back pain (signs of severe kidney inflammation), which can  potentially progress to kidney failure."   From the informational leaflet for Teva Pantoprazolo    Which of the following statements is the correct interpretation of the information  contained in this excerpt?
  A) Using this medication could lead to serious kidney problems.
  B) Using this medication always leads to yellowing of the skin.
  C) Using this medication could lead to pancreatic problems.
  D) Using this medication never leads to urinary tract problems.
  E) Those with kidney failure may benefit from using this medication.

Q2. "The Information and Communication Technology sector in Apulia is in full recovery.     After the 2.4% decline recorded in 2020, the Apulian digital market -- valued just under three billion  -- is regaining ground, resuming the steady growth seen in recent years. Despite the difficulties  companies face in finding all the specific professionals, whom the university system can only  partially train, the upward trend has resumed.     As demonstrated by the results of Exprivia, active in ICT and listed on the MTA market of the Milan  Stock Exchange, in the first quarter, the revenue of this big player -- total revenues in 2020 at 167.8  million, 2,400 professionals distributed in 7 countries worldwide -- grew by 5.4% compared to the  same period in 2020, rising from 38 to 41 million. Profitability has grown and continues to grow,  which in 2020 was 12.7 percent. 'Companies,' explains Gianni Sebastiano, Investor Relator of the  group led by Domenico Favuzzi, 'are recovering profitability because they are revising their  processes. The more digitalization you put into processes, the more you impact efficiency and  costs: this is the great lesson of the pandemic.' The Apulian company aims to consolidate the  growth recorded in recent months in all the markets in which it operates as a system integrator:  public administration, banks, aerospace, local health, telemedicine."  from "Il Sole 24 ore" 28 June 2021    Indicate which of the following statements is **not** correct:
  A) the pandemic ensured the growth of the Apulian digital sector because companies in the  sector transformed into digital companies.
  B) the growth of the Apulian digital sector is due to, among other reasons, revisions in  company processes.
  C) despite shortages in the number of adequate professionals, the Apulian digital sector has  recorded increased profitability over the past year.
  D) the pandemic was one the factors that led to the digitalization of company processes.
  E) the digitalization of company processes is one of the principle causes for the economic  growth of the sector.

Q3. "This animal catches a man and straightway kills him; after he is dead, it weeps for him with a  lamentable voice and many tears. Then, having done lamenting, it cruelly devours him. It is thus  with the hypocrite, who, for the smallest matter, has his face bathed with tears, but shows the  heart of a tiger and rejoices in his heart at the woes of others, while wearing a pitiful face."  The Notebooks of Leonardo da Vinci    Which animal is the author talking about in this text?
  A) Crocodile
  B) Lion
  C) Panther
  D) Tiger
  E) Boa

Q4. In 1955, Dr. Vincent Zigas discovered that kuru, a deadly inflammation of the brain  widespread among the indigenous people of New Guinea, was caused by a practice  linked to a local funeral rite: eating the brains of deceased relatives. Another  encephalopathy that resembles kuru is Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, which is not only  found in New Guinea.  Creutzfeldt-Jakob is rare and a difficult-to-diagnose problem, as it  is sometimes confused with diseases like Alzheimer's. Both kuru and Creutzfeldt-Jakob  are caused by an infectious protein, the prion, present in the tissues of the affected  individuals even after death.  G. Maga Batteri spazzini e virus che curano Zanichelli    Only one of the following statements is coherent with the excerpt:
  A) Kuru, Creutzfeldt-Jakob Disease and Alzheimer’s are diseases whose diagnoses can be  confused with each other
  B) Alzheimer’s is recognizable as a development of Creutzfeldt-Jakob Disease
  C) Vincent Zigas discovered a cure for the negative effects of prions
  D) Creutzfeldt-Jakob Disease is widespread in New Guinea as a result of the practice of  consuming the brains of deceased relatives
  E) the prion is a bacterium which develops after death inside tissue proteins    Logical reasoning and problem-solving

Q5. Consider this statement:    The number two is a prime number.    Which of the following statements is deducible from the given statement?
  A) At least one prime number exists.
  B) No prime numbers exist.
  C) At least one number is not a prime number.
  D) No number is a prime number.
  E) All numbers are prime numbers.

Q6. From the given statements    If today is Saturday, then I am a philosopher    I am not a philosopher    Which conclusion can be deduced?
  A) Today is not Saturday.
  B) Today is Saturday.
  C) Today is Friday.
  D) I am a philosopher.
  E) None of the other choices is correct.      Ministero dell'Università e della Ricerca

Q7. Alberto, Beatrice, Carlo, and Daniela are dining at the same square table, each seated on  one side of the table. Alberto is seated to the left of Beatrice but not to the right of Carlo.  Which of the following statements can be deduced?
  A) Daniela is seated to the right of Carlo.
  B) Carlo is seated across from Beatrice.
  C) Daniela is seated to the left of Beatrice.
  D) Alberto is seated to the left of Carlo.
  E) Beatrice is seated across from Alberto.

Q8. Three pills — coloured blue, red, and green, respectively, — are each placed individually  inside three small boxes of the same colours — blue, red, and green — in such a way that  no pill is inside the box of its own colour. Additionally, the blue pill is not in the green box.  Which pill is in which box?
  A) The green pill is in the blue box, the red pill is in the green box, the blue pill is in the red box.
  B) The green pill is in the blue box, the red pill is in the blue box, the blue pill is in the green box.
  C) The blue pill is in the green box, the green pill is in the red box, the red pill is in the blue box.
  D) The red pill is in the blue box, the green pill is in the green box, the blue pill is in the red box.
  E) The blue pill is in the blue box, the green pill is in the green box, the red pill is in the red box.

Q9. At this moment, an analogue clock is showing exactly 3:00 PM. After the minute hand has  completed 1.75 full rotations from its current position, what time will the clock indicate?
  A) 4:45 PM
  B) 1:25 PM
  C) 3:35 PM
  D) 4:30 PM
  E) 5:00 PM    Biology