IMAT — Biology 기출문제 (2024–2025)
==================================================

[2024년 — 23문제]

Q10. Which process occurs within mitochondria?
  A) Cellular respiration
  B) Glycolysis
  C) Photosynthesis
  D) The methylation of sugars
  E) The formation of microbodies       Ministero dell’Università e della Ricerca           3

Q11. What is a hydrogen bond?
  A) It is a bond between a hydrogen atom and another strongly electronegative atom (such  as oxygen or nitrogen) which is present in another molecule.
  B) It is a covalent bond between hydrogen and oxygen.
  C) It is a strong bond which allows bonding between non-polar molecules.
  D) It is the bond which occurs between hydrogen and oxygen within a water molecule.
  E) It is the bond between hydrogen and ionised atoms (such as phosphorus).

Q12. In eukaryotic cells, Krebs cycle reactions occur:
  A) In the mitochondrial matrix
  B) On the internal membrane of the mitochondria
  C) In the cytoplasm
  D) In the large ribosomal subunit
  E) Close to the plasma membrane

Q13. What kind of monosaccharide is glucose?
  A) hexose
  B) pentose
  C) triose
  D) tetrose
  E) nonose

Q14. Which pentose sugar is present in RNA nucleotides?
  A) Ribose
  B) Glucose
  C) Fructose
  D) Glycerol
  E) Lactose

Q15. What are carrier proteins?
  A) They are the proteins that transfer molecules and ions across the plasma  membrane
  B) They are proteins that phosphorylate enzymes in the plasma membrane.
  C) They are proteins that break down phospholipids in the plasma membrane.
  D) They are proteins that transport mRNA in the nucleus.
  E) They are proteins that transport tRNA in the nucleolus.

Q16. What is the cell’s energy currency?
  A) ATP
  B) FADH2
  C) NADH
  D) Creatine
  E) NADPH

Q17. Which kind of reaction is ATP hydrolysis?
  A) exergonic
  B) endergonic
  C) condensation
  D) Oxidation-reduction
  E) Lipolysis          4

Q18. The presence of intercellular compartmentalisation is a characteristic of which  organisms?
  A) Of eukaryotes
  B) Of viruses
  C) Of bacteria
  D) Of prokaryotes
  E) Only of algae

Q19. Which intracellular structure is composed of microtubules?
  A) The centriole
  B) The nucleus
  C) The Golgi apparatus
  D) The nucleolus
  E) The endoplasmic reticulum

Q20. Mitochondria have:
  A) An outer membrane and a very selective inner membrane
  B) Only a very selective outer membrane
  C) An outer membrane, an intermediate membrane, and a very selective inner membrane
  D) An outer membrane consisting of a phospholipid monolayer
  E) A very selective membrane in which no proteins are present

Q21. What is an anticodon?
  A) The sequence of three nucleotides found on the tRNA corresponding to a codon on the  mRNA.
  B) A sequence three nucleotides transcribed from the mRNA and translated by rRNA
  C) A part of the DNA that codes for a specific amino acid
  D) A terminal triplet of rRNA that binds a specific amino acid
  E) The sequence of three mRNA nucleotides corresponding to a DNA codon

Q22. What are ribosomes made of?
  A) RNA and proteins
  B) DNA and proteins
  C) DNA and lipids
  D) RNA and DNA
  E) RNA, DNA, and proteins

Q23. The cell membrane consists of:
  A) a double phospholipid layer with hydrophobic tails facing inward and the presence of  integral and peripheral proteins
  B) Cholesterol and phospholipid molecules enclosing a protein layer
  C) A double layer of triglycerides and cholesterol
  D) A glycoprotein layer containing phospholipids and cholesterol
  E) A layer of fatty acids and globular proteins containing phospholipids and cholesterol

Q24. In protein synthesis, what is translation?
  A) It is the process by which mRNA is read and converted into a specific sequence of amino  acids.
  B) It is the process of transcribing the mRNA sequence into a corresponding DNA molecule.
  C) It is the process of specific recognition of rRNA by amino acids.
  D) It is the process in which DNA is read and the corresponding mRNA produced.
  E) It is the process of pairing between DNA codons and tRNA anticodons.        Ministero dell’Università e della Ricerca           5

Q25. What are the principal components of the cytoskeleton?
  A) Microtubules, microfilaments, and intermediate filaments
  B) Microtubules, myosin, and filamin
  C) Microtubules, dynein, and myosin
  D) Actin, myosin and dynein
  E) Collagen fibres and reticular fibres

Q26. The term “allele” defines:
  A) one of several alternative forms of a gene
  B) A coding DNA base for a specific amino acid
  C) A hereditary trait only found in haploid cells
  D) The phenotypic manifestation of a given gene
  E) A set of coding DNA triplets for a specific amino acid

Q27. In a heterozygous condition, an allele can certainly express itself when:
  A) dominant
  B) recessive
  C) mutated
  D) multiple
  E) associated

Q28. What are mutations?
  A) Alterations in the genetic information of a cell
  B) Alteration in the energy metabolism of a cell
  C) Alterations in enzyme functionality during zygote formation
  D) Alterations in the active transport system of biological membranes
  E) Alterations in the mechanism of cell division.

Q29. Translation is a process which:
  A) leads to the synthesis of polypeptide chains from mRNA
  B) occurs in the nucleus of eukaryotic cells
  C) leads to the synthesis of RNA from DNA
  D) is very similar to transcription
  E) Is exclusively eukaryotic

Q30. If the sequence CCGTTATTGA is found on a strand of DNA helix, what sequence will be  found on the complementary strand?
  A) GGCAATAACT
  B) AGTTATTGCC
  C) GGACATCCCT
  D) CGCACCTCCT
  E) GGCAATTAAT

Q31. Replication is the process through which:
  A) DNA is used as a template to synthesise new DNA molecules
  B) DNA is used as a template to synthesise new RNA molecules
  C) Daughter cells are formed from a mother cell
  D) RNA is used as a template to synthesise proteins
  E) RNA is used as a template to synthesise new RNA molecules          6

Q32. The prokaryotic operon is:
  A) A functional unit composed of a group of adjacent genes, co-ordinately controlled, and of  DNA sequences with regulatory functions.
  B) A group of adjacent genes independent from each other
  C) a protein complex that catalyses the process of protein synthesis
  D) An RNA complex that is involved in the replication of DNA
  E) A DNA sequence element without any type of regulatory function     Chemistry

[2025년 — 23문제]

Q10. During lactic fermentation, pyruvic acid is:
  A) reduced
  B) oxidised
  C) decarboxylated
  D) phosphorylated
  E) dephosphorylated

Q11. Which of the following statements about glycolysis is correct?
  A) When a molecule of glucose is converted to pyruvate in glycolysis, 2 NAD+ are reduced.
  B) Triose phosphate isomerase catalyses the conversion of dihydroxyacetone phosphate to  1,3-bisphosphoglycerate.
  C) Phosphofructokinase catalyses the conversion of fructose 1,6-bisphosphate to  dihydroxyacetone phosphate.
  D) When a molecule of glucose is converted to pyruvate in glycolysis, CO2 is produced.
  E) In the first part, FADH2 is formed.

Q12. Each acetyl-CoA molecule that enters the Krebs cycle produces:
  A) 3 NADH, 1 FADH2, 1 GTP and 2 molecules of CO2
  B) 1 NADH, 3 FADH2, 1 GTP and 2 molecules of CO2
  C) 3 NADH, 1 FADH2, 1 GTP and 3 molecules of CO2
  D) 3 NADH, 1 FADH2, 2 GTP and 3 molecules of CO2
  E) 2 NADH, 2 FADH2, 2 GTP and 2 molecules of CO2

Q13. Oxidative phosphorylation is a metabolic pathway:
  A) through which the energy stored in reduced coenzymes is used for the synthesis of ATP
  B) through which the amino group resulting from the degradation of amino acids is  eliminated
  C) through which fatty acids are broken down by removing two carbon atoms at a time
  D) which represents the final stage of the anabolism of amino acids, carbohydrates, and  fatty acids
  E) through which fatty acid synthesis occurs

Q14. Cytochromes are:
  A) present in the respiratory chain
  B) transporters of hydrogen atoms in the respiratory chain
  C) enzymes that synthesize ATP
  D) inhibitors of oxidative phosphorylation
  E) cofactors of glycolysis

Q15. Collagen is a protein that is:
  A) extracellular
  B) membranous
  C) intracellular
  D) abundant in the thick filament
  E) nuclear

Q16. Muscle contraction is triggered by an increase in the concentration of calcium ions that  bind to:
  A) troponin
  B) myosin
  C) tropomyosin
  D) actin
  E) vimentin

Q17. Which of the following statements about myosin and actin is CORRECT?
  A) The binding of ATP to the actin-myosin complex promotes the dissociation of the  complex.
  B) The binding of ATP to the actin-myosin complex promotes the formation of the complex.
  C) The binding of calcium to troponin is necessary for the dissociation of the actin-myosin  complex.
  D) Actin has ATPase activity.
  E) Tropomyosin has ATPase activity.

Q18. The Bohr effect is observed in tissues that are oxidizing large amounts of nutrients,  generating hydrogen ions, and releasing CO2 into the blood. This results in:
  A) a decrease in oxygenated haemoglobin molecules
  B) an increase in oxygenated haemoglobin molecules
  C) an increase in the total number of red blood cells
  D) the denaturation of haemoglobin
  E) an increase in protein synthesis     Ministero dell'Università e della Ricerca

Q19. Which of the following compounds corresponds to the statement "a substance that  increases the speed of a reaction and is found unchanged at the end of it”?
  A) Catalyst
  B) Effector
  C) Cofactor
  D) Modulator
  E) Cholesterol

Q20. In competitive inhibition:
  A) the inhibitor and the substrate compete for the active site of the enzyme
  B) the inhibitor binds to the substrate, preventing a reaction with the enzyme
  C) the inhibitor binds to the allosteric site and prevents the substrate from binding to the  enzyme
  D) the inhibitor prevents the release of products from the active site
  E) the inhibitor binds to the enzyme-cholesterol complex

Q21. Which of the following classes of digestive enzymes is involved in the digestion of  proteins?
  A) Peptidase
  B) Amylase
  C) Lipase
  D) Isomerase
  E) Transaminase

Q22. Oxidative phosphorylation involves:
  A) both membrane proteins and mobile molecules
  B) exclusively mitochondrial matrix proteins
  C) exclusively integral membrane proteins
  D) exclusively peripheral proteins
  E) only nuclear proteins

Q23. How are the reduced coenzymes that are formed during biological oxidation reoxidized?
  A) Through the respiratory chain
  B) Through the process of beta oxidation
  C) By direct action of oxygen
  D) Through the passage of electrons in ATP synthase
  E) With the synthesis of hormones

Q24. Which high-energy reserve compound contains phosphate groups and is present in  muscles?
  A) Creatine phosphate
  B) Carnitine phosphate
  C) Creatinine phosphate
  D) Glucose 1-phosphate
  E) Phosphofructokinase

Q25. Which of the following metabolic processes occurs mainly in the liver?
  A) Urea cycle
  B) Glycolysis
  C) β-oxidation of fatty acids
  D) The Krebs Cycle
  E) Transamination

Q26. It is more advantageous for humans to store energy as triglycerides in adipose tissue  rather than as proteins in muscles because triglycerides in adipose tissue contain:
  A) more calories and less water
  B) fewer calories and less water
  C) fewer calories and more water
  D) more calories and more water
  E) more oxygen and less nitrogen

Q27. Lysosomes are organelles:
  A) that form by budding from the Golgi apparatus
  B) equipped with enzymes that function optimally at a pH above 7
  C) that form by budding from the smooth endoplasmic reticulum
  D) whose malfunction is currently not believed to be associated with diseases
  E) responsible for the synthesis of proteins destined for secretion

Q28. Which of the following statements is correct?
  A) The nucleus, mitochondria and chloroplasts all contain DNA.
  B) Only the nucleus contains DNA while mitochondria and chloroplasts contain RNA.
  C) All cellular organelles possess a small amount of DNA.
  D) The rough endoplasmic reticulum contains the DNA necessary for protein synthesis.
  E) Prokaryotes have a well-defined nucleus containing DNA.

Q29. What is the main function of the plasma membrane in cells?
  A) Regulating exchanges between the inside and outside of the cell
  B) Providing energy to the cell
  C) Synthesizing proteins
  D) Containing the cell's genetic material
  E) Facilitating cell movement

Q30. Which reactions are defined as exergonic?
  A) Reactions that release energy and occur spontaneously
  B) Reactions that require heat to proceed
  C) Reactions that occur only in the presence of light
  D) Reactions that produce chemical energy without the consumption of reactants
  E) Reactions that always involve the synthesis of new compounds

Q31. What is the main role of osteoblasts?
  A) Producing collagen and minerals for the bone matrix
  B) Resorbing minerals from the bone
  C) Regulating blood pH
  D) Breaking down damaged bone tissue
  E) Transporting nutrients in the bone marrow

Q32. Insulin:
  A) stimulates glucose uptake in muscle
  B) stimulates the breakdown of glycogen
  C) is a steroid hormone
  D) inhibits fatty acid synthesis
  E) is secreted by the adrenal gland     Ministero dell'Università e della Ricerca        Chemistry